[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
here are some thing that's kind of tricky.
JavaScript supports logical operators.
I'm not gonna do truth tables right now,
so I'll just show you guys how to
use these logical
operators in the console.
So, I'm just gonna put a comma here so
it doesn't execute.
This symbol means AND.
And AND means that you have two values,
an A and a B.
For AND to return true,
both those values have to be true.
So if I do true and true.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We're
gonna get a true.
I do a true and a false,
we're gonna get a false.
>> Brian Holt: You need to [INAUDIBLE].
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yes.
False and false is false.
True and false is false.
False and true also false so there's only
one condition where AND will return true.
The second guy we have here is
these two pipe-looking thingies,
and that's an OR operation.
So OR means that either one of the values
is true, and a fun thing about OR
is if the first value is true,
JavaScript is like okay, cool I'm done.
It doesn't matter what
the second value is.
So you can do like true and
blah, blah, blah.
Oops, true and-
>> Brian Holt: Two [INAUDIBLE].
>> Nina Zakharenko: Thank you, sorry guys.
Sorry, I'm using the wrong symbol and
that's why it's not working.
So true or whatever,
doesn't matter if it's defined or
not or like not even valid JavaScript.
JavaScript is like,
I got a true, cool, I'm done.
So true or false, true, false or true,
also true
>> Nina Zakharenko: The only time OR
returns false if is if
both values are false.
So NOT is just a negation.
Not true is false,
not false is true.
And we can combine these, the AND and the
OR and the NOT in different combinations.
I won't go into anything too complicated,
but for an example.
Let's do true and true.
We're gonna use parenthesis here, and
we're gonna negate the value of
what's inside those parenthesis.
So true and true returns true.
And then negating it returns false.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Is anyone
have questions about this?
>> Speaker 3: There's question
about the single logical operators.
Do they perform bit-wise operations?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah,
but not something you wanna mess with
in JavaScript unless you're crazy,
pretty much.
>> Brian Holt: Even if you're crazy.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah,
just don't do it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So, here's
a combination of a logical operator and
a comparison.
So we have x is 5 and y is 3.
We check, is x less than 4?
The value is false.
Is y less than 3?
Yeah it is, so false and true is false.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Oops, same with
this operation here at the bottom.
X is not less than 4.
But y is less than 4.
So if we do that expression and
we OR it we'll get back a true.
So one of the most useful features
of JavaScript are arrays.
So arrays are a list of variables.
They're written with square brackets,
so here's a notation for an array.
The values in it
are separated with a comma.
Arrays have some useful
properties to them.
One of them being length.
So, oops, if we make an array here
>> Nina Zakharenko: We use an open score
bracket to start it we put in some
strings and they're common delimited.
We use closing bracket to close it.
So now we have our array.
We use the name of our array,
we can call .link on it.
It'll give back at 2.
So if you're using
the Chrome JavaScript console,
just a helpful thing to know is, it knows
what methods are available on this,
so if you start typing,
you'll get some helpful hints there.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
if we wanna access an item in our array,
we use square brackets.
So we call the name of our array,
open bracket, a number, close bracket.
So an important thing to note is that
array access is actually zero based.
So even though the length
of our array is two,
we would access the first
item by callings fruits zero.
And the second item by calling fruits one